[Music]
did they really
find the lost city of atlantis
and by the way who are they that they
keep talking about
we need to find out who the heck they
are anyway
once again i digress stay with me here
an extraordinary island home to a
powerful civilization
sunk to the bottom of the sea by a
mighty earthquake
the story of atlantis still fascinates
us
over 2 000 years after it was written
was atlantis a real place or just a
fictional story
some believe it really did exist others
say it was simply a myth
and there are those who believe that
some parts of the story
were based on fact
nonetheless many have searched for the
location of the lost city
but could they have been looking in the
wrong place
all this time maybe
a recent report claims to have
discovered the true location of atlantis
and it's nowhere near you'd expect it to
be
keep on watching for more details
but first take this moment to subscribe
to our channel
where you'll find the answers to life's
biggest questions
there are new videos coming out every
single day right here on the bright side
of life
so give that notification bell a ring if
you don't want to miss a thing
all right the legend of atlantis let's
review
how the story actually goes
[Music]
the idea of atlantis was conceptualized
by the greek philosopher plato
who wrote about it in two of his works
timaeus and kritius
in plato's writing the story goes like
this
socrates met with three men timmius of
locre
hermocrites of syracuse and criteus of
athens
in order to find out how athens had
interacted with other states in ancient
times
that's when chris stepped forward and
told him a story
now bear with me here because it's sort
of like a herded through the grapevine
type of situation
chris had heard about it from his
grandfather
who had heard from the poet solon while
the latter was in egypt
there solon talked to priest who spoke
of a legendary battle
involving egypt and athens
still following this i didn't lose you
okay
athens was an extraordinary island in
the atlantic ocean
as for the main city located there its
peculiarity was that it had concentric
rings
that alternated between water and land
the city was beautifully designed
had extravagant architecture was home to
kings
and a strong military force and was
overall
a marvel to behold
[Music]
to top things off it also held an
abundance of precious metals
gold and silver
for some unknown reason atlantis decided
to wage war on the remainder of asia and
europe
the only one to try to defend themselves
against such a powerful enemy
was athens who took on the atlantean
forces and defeated them
thus proving that athens was actually
superior to other states
atlantis having failed fell out of favor
with the deities
who destroyed the ancient civilization
with massive earthquakes and floods
that eventually sank the entire island
into the sea
[Music]
man those deities what poor sports
in essence the legend of atlantis tries
to show
that athens was the most powerful state
it's a story about a small but peaceful
city athens
that triumphs over a powerful but
corrupt one atlantis
so the story certainly works as a tale
about human greed and corruption
and the power that a small but just
nation can hold over a tyrant
but was plato just telling a tale albeit
a moral one
or still just a story or
was he referring to actual historical
events
according to plato the story came from
about 9
000 years before his time and had been
passed down by
poets and other storytellers
this point does support the idea that
atlantis was never based on true
events if the story had indeed been
around for about 9 000 years before
plato's time
chances are someone else would have
written about it
however atlantis was only described in
plato's works
another aspect to consider is the way
the story was told
it was a tale that was passed down from
generation to generation
from egyptian priests to solon to
critia's grandfather
to chris himself and finally to socrates
if the story was real information is
bound to be lost
misinterpreted or changed in some way
through word of mouth a story can morph
to such a point
that the final person to receive it
might have a completely different tale
since the grapevine is such an
unreliable source
if the story was real there's no way of
knowing what the original plot might
have looked like
but this glitch isn't enough to say
atlantis was made up entirely
maybe there were aspects of the story
based on real life
there are some theories that support the
existence of atlantis
according to robert ballard the ocean
explorer who discovered the
wreckage of the titanic the story of
atlantis makes sense
because similar things have happened to
other civilizations
throughout history there have been
cataclysmic floods
earthquakes and volcanic eruptions
nearly 3 600 years ago a volcanic
eruption
wrecked havoc on the island of santorini
in greece
bringing an end to the ancient minoan
civilization
some believe that plato's atlantis is
based on the loss of the minoan people
[Music]
so it's reasonable to say that if this
situation
occurred with a minoan civilization it
could have happened to atlantis too
if the island was real there are so many
theories about its original location
[Music]
some have said it existed under
antarctica on the coast of spain
or somewhere in the mediterranean
plato himself wrote that there was an
island situated in front of the straits
the straits he was referring to are
believed to be the straits of gibraltar
the waterway separating europe from
africa
[Music]
however there hasn't been any evidence
in that area of a lost city
perhaps the location of atlantis has
been hidden in plain sight
not too far off from the strait people
have searched for it
expecting it to be buried in the sea but
could the remains of atlantis
be sitting right in the middle of the
sahara desert
the rashad structure casually known as
the eye of the sahara
is a circular formation in the earth
located in northwest africa
in the country of mauritania and
if you look at pictures that depict what
the city of atlantis might have looked
like
and compare them to the richat structure
you can't deny the similarities
if you were to walk the richat structure
chances are you wouldn't be able to tell
that it has the same concentric circles
as the one described for atlantis
you'd need a different perspective to
spot those
in fact most people didn't even know
about the rashat structure
until it was seen from space the crew of
the gemini 4 spacecraft in 1965
saw it from above and took pictures of
the site
once you get that perspective from space
you really start to wonder
perhaps this is where atlantis has been
hiding the whole time
to add to this theory the rashat
structure is close to the size that
plato gave for the city of atlantis in
his works
plato wrote that atlantis was 127 stadia
in diameter
now there are differing ideas on how to
interpret ancient units of measurement
but most sources put one stadium equal
to anywhere from
607 to 630 feet
so do the math and 127 of those
would be about 15 miles
as for the richat structure scientists
have put its diameter at roughly 25
miles
sure that's a far cry from 15 but get
this
the inner circle is 19 miles across
again it's not exactly 15 but don't
forget that these are all
rough estimations we don't know plato's
exact calculation
and we can only do our own educated
guesses nowadays
as to the size of the richat structure
[Music]
it's not like you can walk across this
thing with a tape measure and get the
exact amount
but hey let's try who's got a 25 mile
tape measure
nobody okay
besides the circles within circle's
formation and the similar sizes
another argument is that plato describes
the city
located with beautiful mountains to the
north and
there is a mountain range in the north
part of the richat structure
you might be wondering how an island
could be sitting in the desert and not
deep at sea
[Music]
let's look at plato's own words for this
he wrote that atlantis became no longer
accessible by
ship so does this necessarily mean it
sank to the depths
or could we interpret these words as
atlantis becoming part of a regular
piece of land
losing its island status
[Music]
to support this claim is the fact that
the rishot structure
is deeply eroded meaning that great
amounts of water
must have created the formations that
currently stand
pictures of the coastal area of the
region show what looks like
water formations going from the coast to
where the richat structure now stands
so basically instead of the lost island
sinking deep into the waters it actually
could have
risen from them it is a pretty
thought-provoking theory
but that's all it is a theory without
any hard evidence
so now it's your turn to join the
discussion do you think the eye of the
sahara
is actually the remnants of the lost
city of atlantis
let us know in the comments if you found
this video
interesting then give it a like and
share it with your friends
don't forget to subscribe and stay on
the bright side of life
you